# Bar chart
The chart illustrate the amount of (key value in chart) + verb + on (X-axis summery)
 in XXX on YYY (time and location, I'll say Z axis)

**Overview** Highlight key features
Overall, the (none) of XXX

> Logically break down the whole picture into 2 separable groups


**Body paragraph A**
In term of (one of X axis), xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx as opposed 
**Body paragraph B**


** Example: **

The bar chart compares consumer spending on six different items in Germany, Italy, France and Britain.  

It is clear that British people spent significantly more money than people in the other three countries on all six goods. Of the six items, consumers spent the most money on photographic film.  

People in Britain spent just over ￡170,000 on photographic film, which is the highest figure shown on the chart. By contrast, Germans were the lowest overall spenders, with roughly the same figures (just under ￡150,000) for each of the six products.  

The figures for spending on toys were the same in both France and Italy, at nearly ￡160,000. However, while French people spent more than Italians on photographic film and CDs, Italians paid out more for personal stereos, tennis racquets and perfumes. The amount spent by French people on tennis racquets, around ￡145,000, is the lowest figure shown on the chart.

# Pie Chart


**Example:**
The pie chart compares figures for visitors to four categories of tourist attraction and to five different theme parks in Britain in 1999.  

It is clear that theme parks and museums / galleries were the two most popular types of tourist attraction in that year. Blackpool Pleasure Beach received by far the highest proportion of visitors in the theme park sector.  

Looking at the information in more detail, we can see that 38% of the surveyed visitors went to a theme park, and 37% of them went to a museum or gallery. By contrast, historic houses and monuments were visited by only 16% of the sample, while wildlife parks and zoos were the least popular of the four types of tourist attraction, with only 9% of visitors.  
In the theme park sector, almost half of the people surveyed (47%) had been to Blackpool Pleasure Beach. Alton Towers was the second most popular amusement park, with 17% of the sample, followed by Pleasureland in Southport, with 16%. Finally, Chessington World of Adventures and Legoland Windsor had each welcomed 10% of the surveyed visitors.


# 
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTU2NzAxMjYyMSwxNzUzNTEzMjU3LDI2OT
IyMTYwNl19
-->