---
layout:     post
title:      AWS 1O1
subtitle:   All you need about AWS for Small Side Project
date:       2018-11-12
author:    Chester
header-img: img/spider.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
   Project
---

## Amazon Service
I want to write down this to help me to remember all I need. I hope it also help others. 
However, I don't think there's any way to replace [amazon official document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/zh_cn/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/concepts.html)



## Overview
Here's amazon [overview](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-technical-content/latest/aws-overview/aws-overview.pdf?icmpid=link_from_whitepapers_page)
AWS = Cloud Computing
Actually it's easier as understanding as buying new PC. Everything I try to implement on PC can be done by rent AWS server.

I think there's 7 different purpose I know and they have different product compare.
 1. Compute -> EC2
 2. Storage
 3. Database
 4. Migration
 5. Networking and Content Delivery
 6. Management tool
 7. Security -> IAM
 8. Model deployment->SageMaker
 9. Analysis
 10. IOT 

## EC2
EC2 is an Elastic Compute Cloud. It's most
### Lambda
Only to execute background task.
Trigger and execute.
EX: Compression. apply filter
### Elastic Beanstalk
### Elastic Load Balancer
### Auto Scaling

## Storage S3
## Database
3 Different types I've tried. And it's easy to identify which tool we should use by purpose:

 1. Rational database
 2. NoSQL
 3. Graph database
 4. 

## Management Tool
To control AWS resource.

## Networking and Content Delivery
???

## Migration
If you have ton of data in somewhere else, And I want to switch to use AWS. You can send it physically. 
What?!


## IAM
Giving user authority

## Side Project Time


### Reference
[AWS for beginner](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IT1X42D1KeA)

## AWS lambda
It's serverless archtectture
It's small service provide user don't need to care about the server. 
Here's few features I like most for Lambda
- Run parallel
- Good fit for backend purpose
## Hello World
Container is function approach


## What's role IAM play?
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTQwMzA4NzkyNSwxMjMwNjY4Mzc1LDE2MT
M3NDAxNDddfQ==
-->