---
layout:     post
title:      CI/CD
subtitle:   Decent tool to craft Saas
date:       2019-07-11
author:    Chester
catalog: true
tags:
	-Tool
---
# Increasing productivity! 
To keep the work done quick and efficiency is like doing sport. There are ton of the technique, strategy, footwork... and **muscle**.  After few calls from different position all over the whole software technology, I realize I have no idea how to improve code quality and reduce the developing time. CI/CD, clean code are two basic idea can help me on this. Hope this article can help those who want to try and seek for **hello world** case. Although this project doesn't provide clean hello world case, it's still good practice reference. 

## What project is?
This project is to build a easy tool helping people make easier choice on buying beef. Fat quantity and distribution is fundamental


# CI 
基本上需要,
## unit test, TDD
CI core. Heavy test + limited testing before coding.
要求你不要寫過多功能的Code. 限制住功能的Scope. 每一個function 必須有相當.
- Test 必須一定要先錯. 才能是有意義Test
- 
## CI server
Don't need people testing CI. That's solution to solve the style. 
***Ref: PEP8***
- To guarantee the code style staying the same
- Unit-test pass!
- Fully automatic
**travis ci** is almost best tool for staring our CI/CD hello world. 

# Unit-test


# CD
Continuous delivery. 自動佈署. 
自動發佈到server  上面的工具. 
## Docker
Docker is very mature and convenient tool. Only necessary part will be introduced in this section.
### Docker init
### Docker customized
[Docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/) is docker version github. Easy to share and easy to advanced them is the trend for now. We can also find tensorflow provide its hub  also.

Google cloud 
## CD-> App Engine 




# The book need to be read
Hardworking and Keep reading are indivisible. The difficult part is to decide which book deserve we take our precious time to invest on.

1. Clean Code
2. Clean architecture 

# Auto-reload
1. front-end
	Java-script + web app
	MVP
2. Mockup
    what tool? sketch, illustrator, figma...
    -------------------

<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTgwNTQ5MzUwMCwxNTUyNzk4ODYzLC0xMz
cwNzQ3MTMsLTE3NjI5NzU0OTMsMTAwNzU3NzY3NSwtMTk1MTk1
OTU2OSwtODY2MjQ4NjIzLC01NTYwNTIzNzksNDkxNDEwOTExLC
0xNTM3OTI0NjEyLC04NzU2OTUwMDQsLTEyNTMxNTU5NDgsLTE3
MjU5NzMyNTgsNDcyNzI4MTA1XX0=
-->