
# CH 1  

## Reliability  

It's a topic about failures and faults.  
- function is correct  
- making mistake  
- loading/volume can handle the required  
fault ~= failure  
fault relies on error handling  
Hardware faults-> Redundancy. AWS is fairly common to fail without message..... SW fault-tolerance is more critical in this situation  

## Scalability  
- Define the Load. => Twitter Example  
- Post tweet: 4.6k requests/sec avg, 12k requests/sec peak  
- Home timeline: view posts they followe 300k requests/sec  
1) Direct to read the database  
2) Design a system can utilize the writting time(post tweet) to reduce the reading time(Home timeline update).  
A hybrid solution in CH 12  
- Performance  
- Latency: the internal perspective of delay. Latency is the duration to handle that request.  
- response time: it's user-view on the suspension. It includes queueing delay/network delay/...etc. Therefore, we tend to think of **response time** as distribution instead of a single reliable number.  
  

scaling up = vertical scaling  
scaling out = horizontal scaling  
  

## Maintainability  

- Operability
	- monitoring health of the system
	- Tracking the problem
	- up to date

Keep the routine task easy. Save the productivity on high-value task. 
	- visibility
	- CI/CD
	- **Provide good default behavior** ( This should be followed in all kind of design)
- Simplicity
	To avoid following:
	- inconsistent naming/terminology
	- tangled dependencies
	- coupling of modules
	- accidential complexity: To achieve this , ***abstration*** is the way to create a easy understand case. Hide details of implementation
- Evolvability
# CH 2 Data Models
This topic discuss about how to design appropriate database for the application.

- RDBMS
- NO sql
	It's very tricky naming. Nosql isn't a unique technology. Anything isn't belong to RDMBS is Nosql.
- Grpah-Like Data models

## Design categories 
- One to Many
	Nested JSON format. Once you query unique ID and pull out all the related information. It's easy for this user case.
- Many to One
	Remove redundant data/option.  It's not natural to document model(Nosql)
- Many to Many
	Books& Authors. One writer might have multiple work, so do the books. 

## RDBMS v.s. Document database
- Schema Flexibility
- Queue type
- Data Locality: how to ETL single data

## Declarative v.s. imperative
## Questions
1. Why many2many relation type query doesn't work well on document database ?
2. 
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTEzMzY3MDUxNTIsLTE0NTA0ODA0NjgsMT
MzNjYwMjg4OCwyMTM2NDI2NTUyLC0xNDE3NTI5NzYwLDI4NDgw
NTg3NywtMTY0ODE4NDUwMiwxODIxMDAyMzc2LC0xMjI3MjIwND
Q1LDE0NjEyMDg4LDM2MDU5MjEwNiwtMjEzNzYzMjA3MCwzNDI3
NTM1MjMsMzAzNjIyNTc2LDE5MDY4MTUwMjcsLTE1ODAzNDY4MD
QsNDMxOTk3NTA3LDI0MzQxODIzMywzMTI4Nzg2MDgsLTM4NzM2
NDYxOF19
-->